The President:
Hi, everybody.
Today, I want to talk about
something that most of you
already know --
it's hot outside.
It's really hot.
And if this feels worse than
normal, that's because it is.
We just found out that July was
the warmest month on record --
warmer than any other month
since we began keeping track
more than a century ago.
On top of all this heat, we're
also experiencing one of the
worst droughts in over 50 years.
Almost a quarter of the
continental United States is
facing what we call
"extreme" or "exceptional"
drought -- with states like
Nebraska, Kansas, Missouri,
Oklahoma and Arkansas
getting hit harder than most.
That's bad news for
a lot of people,
but it's especially tough
on our farmers and ranchers.
Right now, almost half of the
corn crop in America is in poor
or very poor condition.
Cattlemen are struggling
to feed their animals.
Many folks are seeing their
livelihoods dry up in front
of their eyes.
And if we don't get relief soon,
Americans everywhere will start
to feel the pinch, because the
food our farmers and ranchers
produce ends up on
grocery store shelves.
We can't let that happen.
That's why, at my direction,
the Department of Agriculture,
led by Secretary Tom Vilsack,
has been working with other
agencies across the federal
government to make sure we're
doing everything we can to help
farmers and ranchers fight back
and recover from this disaster.
Already, we've given farmers
and small businesses across 32
states access to
low-interest emergency loans.
We've opened up more
federal land for grazing.
And we're working with crop
insurance companies to give
farmers a short grace
period on their premiums,
since some families will be
struggling to make ends meet at
the end of the year.
This past week, we
went even further --
announcing an additional $30
million to help get more water
to livestock and restore
land affected by the drought.
We're making it easier
for even more farmers,
ranchers and businesses
to get emergency loans.
And the Department of
Transportation is helping more
truck drivers deliver
supplies to states that need
them the most.
This is an
all-hands-on-deck response,
and we'll be doing even more
in the coming weeks to help
families and communities
that are suffering.
But my Administration
can't do it alone.
Congress needs to
do its part, too.
They need to pass a farm bill
that not only helps farmers and
ranchers respond to
these kinds of disasters,
but also makes necessary
reforms and gives them some
certainty year-round.
That's the single best way we
can help rural communities right
now, and also in the long-term.
So call your Members of
Congress, write them an email,
and tell them that now is
the time to come together and
get this done.
Too many Americans are suffering
right now to let politics get
in the way.
Let's help farmers, ranchers
and business owners recover.
Let's make sure that families
who already stretch their
budgets to the limit
don't have to pay more for
groceries this fall.
In the meantime, I'll keep
doing everything I can to help
communities respond
to this disaster.
Because at times like these, it
doesn't matter if you live in
Des Moines or Detroit --
we're Americans first.
And if we look out
for each other,
we'll come out of this
stronger than before.
Have a great weekend,
everybody, and stay cool.